---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Statement of Purpose
date: 2020-12-01
labels:
  - PhD Portfolio
---

My training in computer science began in high school when I started
learning C/C++ and PHP. For my undergraduate studies, I specialized in
Mathematics and Computer Science at Ecole Centrale Lyon Engineering
School. During this time, I learned theoretical aspects of programming
and began using computer programming for solving problems in signal
processing, biological systems modeling, computer graphics, and
bioinformatics. 

After my second year of engineering school, I worked
in the Astrophysics Department of the French Alternative Energies and
Atomic Energy Commission. I used compressed sensing algorithms to
denoise telescope images. Working on this project was really impactful
because it was my first experience doing research. I found that I
really enjoyed the autonomy that I was given in my work and the
everyday interactions with my peers that provided me insights about
the latest trends in related fields. Then, I joined a collaborative
effort between an acoustician and a computer scientist at two
different institutions, l’Ecole Nationale Superieure de Techniques
Avancées de Bretagne (Brest, France) and Scripps Institute of
Oceanography (San Diego, California, USA). Our goal was to localize
whales using a time-frequency analysis of their calls. I really
enjoyed working on this project because of the interdisciplinary
approaches and heterogenous background of my mentors. In addition, my
end-of-study internship in Sanofi Pasteur (Marcy l’étoile, France)
gave me the opportunity to work in a the pharmaceutical industry,
where I learned how to use machine learning methods to predict a
vaccine response.

Many aspects of computer science are appealing to me, and more
particularly machine learning approaches. I enjoy combining
probability theory and computer science to describe or predict
patterns in data, and biology provides many opportunities to do
so. Moreover, this field keeps evolving at a very fast pace and the
flow of new ideas is very stimulating for creative research. My
involvement in the data science institute in the University of Hawaiʻi
at Mānoa with Dr. Mahdi Belcaid has helped me strengthen my knowledge
in this field, and my various collaboration with biological
oceanography labs in the university has provided me valuable
experience analyzing and curating the data. Already, my current
research tries to makes use of deep learning models to cluster species
in metagenomic samples. 
